1. Does a new supplement help people sleep better?
    First, and this will be consistent across all 4 answers, create two groups of similar identity. In this case, make sure that there are equal examples of people in both test groups of demo, age, gender, socioeconomic background. You might also want to ask them in advance how many hours of sleep they usually get, what time they go to bed, wake up, etc. This could provide another dimension by which to create your test groups. This data will also help assess whether the key metric, increased sleep, occurs for the test group.
    Now that you have your pre-test data and group, give the supplement to the test group and give a placebo (fake supplement) to the controlled group. It probably would make sense to give the test group the supplement for a month before judging success. Perhaps the test would need to go longer depending on the strength of the supplement. Then you should use the variance of amount of time slept, as well as asking people whether they slept better. Defining what makes sleep 'better' might be tricky, and you might ask a few questions pre and post-test:
    - how many times do you wake up during the night?
    - is it difficult for you to go to bed / how long does it take for you to fall asleep?
    - do you feel tired when you wake up in the morning?
    - do you toss in turn at night? etc.
    With this information for pre- and post-test, I would try to determine if the test group saw an increase in 'better' sleep or not. 

2. Will new uniforms help a gym's business?
    First, I would define 'help a gym's business' as more gym membership signups. So your sample size might not be very large in a given month for new signups unless you had multiple gyms. If you had one gym, I would alternate days with the new and old uniforms to keep your sample random. If you had multiple gyms, I would pick a group of gyms to have the new uniforms and the others to have the old uniforms. If you had multiple gyms, it might become more complicated because you're testing potentially in different neighborhoods with different socieconomic backgrounds. In the one gym case, alternating days and perhaps a 3-month test would be a good start, but you may have to increase the test period until you have a large enough sample size of people who have been 'sold' on each uniform. 
    Once you have your relevant sample size, the key metric to assess the effectiveness of each uniform would be the % of gym membership signups out of the total people who came into the gym interested in a gym membership. However, one concern might be that by the time most people come into a gym, they've already decided to join. The difference between the two uniforms might be negligible.  

3. Will a new homepage improve my online exotic pet rental business?
    There are a few key metrics I would pick with this question: rentals of exotic pets or engagement as defined by time spent on website. Hopefully, the website gets enough traffic to be able to build a large enough sample size to test. If not, you may need to do some advertising on pet websites to boost the traffic. From there, you could just randomly serve the old and new homepage to site visitors and see if old or new has better rental rates or engagement. If you do some advertising, and you are able to determine where the visitor is coming from, you may want to try and split your test and base group to have the same number coming from each of the media channels.

4. If I put 'please read' in the email subject will more people read my emails?
    Depending on your email client and its ability to track user engagement, I would track open rate, response rate to email, and the time the email was open (if this is even possible). On that last one, if it's possible, you might have to throw out outliers for people who open the email and then walk away from their desk and would make it look like they were reading the email for 30 minutes. No one reads an email for 30 minutes. 
    You could design this experiment a few ways, where you send multiple emails to the same person with please read in the subject line and determine if 'please read' makes the open rate and engagement higher. Or you could create two test groups, one group gets the 'please read' and the controlled group does not. 